SPECIALIST: Architecture
SCOPE: Animated infographic generation — where it fits, pipeline design, content-type routing

---

WHERE DOES THIS FIT?

Neither Pilaster nor Genpeli. Pilaster owns AI image generation (diffusion models, LoRAs, ComfyUI backends). Genpeli owns video editing of human footage (ffmpeg, Whisper, caption burning). An animated infographic is neither: it is programmatic rendering of structured data into sequential frames. The input is not a prompt or raw footage — it is structured JSON (categories, labels, icons, grid layout) plus animation timing.

The closest existing concept is the carousel-architect specialist, which already produces structured slide JSON. But carousels are static PNGs. This new content type extends the same structured-data-to-visual pipeline with a temporal dimension.

Recommendation: This lives in Holus itself, not in a silo. Specifically, a new rendering module alongside the existing carousel renderer (which already uses HTML/CSS templates + brand-visual.yaml CSS variables). The BrandVisualIdentity model already generates CSS custom properties via to_css_variables(). The infographic renderer reuses this same brand system.

GIF GENERATION PIPELINE

The pipeline is: LLM generates structured layout JSON (grid spec, items, categories, icons) -> HTML/CSS template populates with CSS animations (keyframe delays per element) -> Puppeteer renders N frames at fixed intervals -> frames encoded to output format.

Why HTML/CSS over Python animation libraries: (1) The brand system already emits CSS variables — zero new design tooling. (2) CSS @keyframes with animation-delay gives per-element sequential appearance for free. (3) Puppeteer is a single dependency with deterministic rendering. (4) The carousel pipeline already follows this exact pattern minus the frame capture step.

CONTENT-TYPE ROUTING

The marketing-strategist decides content types during the REASON stage. Currently ContentType has: TUTORIAL, DEMO, TIPS, THREAD, CASE_STUDY, CAROUSEL, VIDEO_REEL, ANNOUNCEMENT, EDUCATIONAL. Add ANIMATED_INFOGRAPHIC.

The specialist_dispatch.py PIPELINES dict needs a new entry:
"animated_infographic": ["hook-architect", "data-visualizer", "infographic-layout-architect", "brand-designer"]

The data-visualizer specialist (already defined in vision.md under Visual Content) produces the structured data. A new infographic-layout-architect specialist produces the grid/layout spec. brand-designer validates brand compliance.

When does the strategist choose this type? When the topic is a taxonomy, comparison, framework, or categorization. The REASON prompt should include: "If the topic naturally decomposes into 4-12 labeled categories with a clear hierarchy, consider ANIMATED_INFOGRAPHIC."

DECISION_POINT: generation_approach

A) HTML/CSS + Puppeteer screenshot frames -> GIF/MP4
B) Python animation library (matplotlib, manim) -> GIF
C) Pilaster generates static, Genpeli animates
D) New dedicated service

VOTE: A — HTML/CSS + Puppeteer

Rationale: Option A reuses the existing brand CSS variable system (BrandVisualIdentity.to_css_variables()), keeps rendering deterministic and debuggable (inspect HTML in browser), and requires one new dependency (Puppeteer) rather than a new silo or service. Option C splits one atomic operation across two silos with a coordination problem — what if Pilaster returns an image that Genpeli cannot animate? Option B (manim/matplotlib) produces ugly output without extreme customization and cannot consume brand CSS. Option D is overengineering for what is essentially "render HTML frames and encode."

The carousel renderer is the existence proof: HTML template + brand CSS -> screenshot -> PNG. This spec extends it to: HTML template + brand CSS + CSS animations -> screenshot N frames -> encode.
